## Table of contents

1. [Installation and Setup](1.Installation-and-Setup.md)
2. [Usage](2.Usage.md)
3. [Helpers](3.Helpers.md)
4. [Providers](4.Providers.md)
5. [Database](5.Database.md)
6. [Routing](6.Routing.md)
7. [Stubs](7.Stubs.md)

# 4. Providers

The library offers several base service provider classes to simplify package development.

## `ServiceProvider`

A base service provider that includes common utilities.

## `PackageServiceProvider`

An abstract class designed for Laravel packages. It simplifies the registration of various resources by providing a convention-based approach.

### Traits and Features

The `PackageServiceProvider` uses several traits to handle different types of assets:

- `HasAssets`: For publishing front-end assets.
- `HasConfig`: For merging and publishing configuration files.
- `HasFactories`: For registering database factories.
- `HasMigrations`: For loading and publishing migrations.
- `HasTranslations`: For loading and publishing translations.
- `HasViews`: For loading and publishing views.

### Example Usage

```php
namespace YourNamespace\Providers;

use Squipix\Support\Providers\PackageServiceProvider;

class YourPackageServiceProvider extends PackageServiceProvider
{
    protected $vendor  = 'your-vendor';
    protected $package = 'your-package';

    public function boot()
    {
        parent::boot();

        $this->publishAll(); // Publishes config, migrations, views, etc.
    }

    public function register()
    {
        parent::register();

        $this->registerConfig();
    }
}
```

## Specialized Providers

- `AuthorizationServiceProvider`: For registering gates and policies.
- `CommandServiceProvider`: For registering Artisan commands.
- `EventServiceProvider`: For registering events and listeners.
- `RouteServiceProvider`: For advanced routing registration.
- `ViewComposerServiceProvider`: For registering view composers.
